What would you think and how would you feel
if I showed up to give this talk
but had done nothing to prepare
what to say to you
—if I had not bothered
to study the outline I was given,
could not remember the theme,
had no idea what the main points are,
and would have to guess
at what scriptures to use to support them,
and then, as I spoke,
I would ramble incoherently?
I’d make a very bad impression.
I know how I would feel.
I would be a nervous wreck,
and you would wonder why
I did not think enough of you
to put all the time and effort
that was necessary
into preparing the talk so that you could get
the most benefit from it.
Can you see where I’m going with this?
Could the same things be said
if you engaged in the ministry
without first preparing what to say?
If you did not review the sample
conversations that had been provided,
could not think of how
to start a conversation,
and did not know
what scripture to share,
how nervous would you be?
And what would the householder
think of you?
It would likely be a very short,
uncomfortable conversation.
And the other person may not care
to have you call again.
We should take some time
to prepare well before we preach.
Why?
Because we have the best message ever
—“the good news of peace”
to share with people—
and we should do our best so that they
will want to listen to what we have to say.
Jesus helped his disciples
to prepare for the ministry.
Luke chapter 10 reports that before
sending out 70 disciples to preach,
he shared with them a pleasant way
to greet each householder,
he told them what to talk about
(the Kingdom of God),
and he told them how to respond
to the varied reactions
they would get in their territory.
As a result,
because the disciples
were fully prepared for the ministry,
they enjoyed some thrilling experiences.
When we are prepared,
we are more poised and enthusiastic
and can truly enjoy the ministry.
As you watch the following video,
notice the good results of preparing well.
We’d made some good changes,
but we weren’t done.
I asked Yuri what she planned to talk about.
That started the usual scramble.
Then we got it—the sample conversation.
That’ll do.
But for that to work,
I had to remember the scripture.
We were both a little forgetful that morning.
Yeah, we needed to prepare better.
We’d been relying on our experience
and not enough on Jehovah.
So first we prepared our hearts.
Then we prepared our minds
and found new ways
to use our preaching tools.
Even a little preparation for initial calls
and our returns visits
went a long way.
The husband said,
“Yeah, we needed to prepare better.”
Have you ever thought that
about your ministry?
Like the couple in the video,
we can first prepare
our heart and our mind
and then see how best to use
our preaching tools.
Our goal should be the same
as that of the apostle Paul.
At 1 Corinthians 9:23,
he wrote that he wanted
to “do all things for the sake
of the good news,
in order to share it with others.”
So let’s think about some specific things
that we can do to prepare well,
beginning with what we can say
on the initial call,
whether that is done
in person or over the telephone.
Each issue of the
Christian Life and Ministry—Meeting Workbook
provides us with sample conversations
that give us some helpful ideas.
Of course, you may modify the samples
or use something entirely different.
Perhaps a subject from a previous month
or a different scripture would have
wider appeal in your territory.
Your opening words may be
the most important part of the presentation,
so think it through.
If the introduction
does not arouse interest,
the other person may terminate
the conversation
before we can give a witness.
We will be more effective if we
carefully prepare
the first sentence or two that we will say
after giving a customary greeting.
We might say,
“Many people are concerned about . . . ”
or “I would like
to get your opinion on . . . ”
or say something else.
Then pick a topic that is of local interest
and ask a well-worded viewpoint question
that would draw the person
into the conversation.
Now, what about preparing
for our return visits?
That actually begins
on the initial call by leaving a question
for the person to think about
until you call again.
That is how the sample initial calls
and return visits
are set up in the Meeting Workbook.
By leaving a thought-provoking question
at the end of every visit,
we can keep the chain of conversations
going as long as possible.
We can illustrate it this way:
Imagine a freight train
with an engine at the front,
a caboose at the rear,
and many cars in between.
What keeps all of those cars
moving together down the train track?
There is a device called a coupler
at the back of each train car
that latches onto the coupler
at the front of the car behind it.
By being coupled, or linked, together,
the cars all run as a unit along the track.
So the question that we leave
with a householder at the end of one visit
is what we can latch onto at the beginning
of our next visit
so that we can keep the train of thought
going from one conversation to the next.
For example, on the initial call
you could ask,
“Why is there so much suffering
in the world?”
After discussing that, raise the question,
“How does God feel about our suffering?”
But don’t answer the question
until your next visit.
After answering that question
on the first return visit,
leave the person with this question,
“What will God do to end our suffering?”
This will be discussed on your next visit.
It is also important to have an objective
in mind for each return visit.
Before making the call,
think about what you want to accomplish
on that call.
If you raised a question the last time,
you’re objective will surely include
answering that question from the Bible.
Of course,
the ultimate objective is to try to start
a Bible study
in the Enjoy Life Forever!  brochure.
Now, what about preparing
for the Bible studies that we conduct?
Even if we know the material very well,
we should prepare for each study session
with our student in mind.
That means thinking about and anticipating
the views and needs of that individual.
What points might he struggle
to understand or accept?
It also means getting familiar
with the lesson
to be covered
in our interactive Bible course.
Read the lesson carefully,
look up the “read” scriptures
to see how they apply,
watch the videos that will be shown
during the lesson,
and review the items
in the “Explore” section
so that you will know which of those
will be especially helpful to your student.
Then you will be well-prepared
to conduct the study.
Since it is ‘God who makes
the seed of truth grow’ in a person’s heart,
we should ask for Jehovah’s blessing
on our preparation for the study
so that we can best help
the student spiritually.
And we will be more effective
in our ministry
if we stay up-to-date
with the latest material
and features found
on jw.org and on JW Library®.
So learn how to navigate the website
and the app.
Two very helpful features on the website
are “Bible Questions Answered”
under the Bible Teachings tab
and “Frequently Asked Questions”
under the About Us tab.
They can also be found
on the app under “Article Series.”
The apostle Paul described himself
at 1 Corinthians 3:10
“as a skilled master builder.”
That is because he was engaging
in a spiritual construction work
to build Christian disciples.
And we are doing the same sort of work
when we engage in the ministry.
But to build effectively,
we must learn to use our tools well.
We especially need to develop skill
in using our principal tool, God’s Word,
as well as learn how to make effective use
of the publications
in our Teaching Toolbox.
A builder who prepares
before starting to work
avoids mistakes and frustration.
Remember what the brother said
at the end of the video?
‘Even a little preparation goes a long way.’
And that is what will help you
to do your best in the ministry.
Just as Paul recommended
at 2 Timothy 2:15
—please follow along in your Bible,
if you will—
it’s 2 Timothy 2:15:
“Do your utmost to present
yourself approved to God,
“a workman with nothing to be ashamed of,
handling the word of the truth aright.”
Then you will experience great joy
in the spiritual building work
that is taking place now
because you will be ready
and well-prepared to share
“the good news of peace.”
Brother Anthony Morris,
a member of the Governing Body,
will now present the next talk
of the symposium,
“Be Ready to Share ‘the Good News of Peace’
—Take the Initiative.”